hey readers a good afternoon so it's day
two and I've got my fully painted side
table I actually ended up doing two
coats of the white one coat of the blue
because i had done white underneath it
so it's actually two coats all together
but i'm really excited the way it turned
out and I'm ready to do step two which
is distressing and step three which is a
clear waxed and then you've done um so
I've already actually distressed the
back a little bit just because I don't
need to spend the whole video showing
you what to do um so I'll show you how
to de-stress the front I have my hundred
grit sand block with the handle right
here I like the handle it just makes
things easier I'm pregnant the more easy
it is for me the better the piece turns
out and then this is just a flat brush i
got it for four dollars at home depot
it's clean and when you're distressing
you're going to find that there's a lot
of chalky residue that comes up because
it's chopped pain do you want to make
sure that you clean that off with a
brush because that mixing with wax makes
it very messy so we want to make sure to
de-stress clean then use a clear wax and
then we're done so when you're just
dressing roll thumb is when furniture is
old it gets dinged when it's being moved
and whatnot so you want to make sure to
sand the places that would just
naturally be aged anyhow don't be shy I
have kind of put a thick layer of two
coats on so even when I put in my muscle
into it you can see and hopefully you
can
the video I'm not sure how clear that
come up there's only a little bit of a
fraction of a where that comes out I'm
going to take all the paint off but if
you really zoom in you can see that
there's actually going to be that layer
a kind of darkish blue and then the wood
which is cool which is talking about
yesterday and not being a big deal
there's paint underneath sometimes it
shows through on the distressing and
then you get that multi-layer bucket so
put hello elbow grease sooner you're
gonna get this upper edge excuse me my
station is a little rocky here but get
the idea also get the corners right here
because those are tired of the ones and
naturally get ding um still worried
about having it be perfect all over the
place the whole point of having old
looking furniture is that it's been
perfect so just whatever you're
eyeballing you're like oh I like that
kind of looks good and you know what if
it doesn't turn out right you can always
repaint the whole thing tomorrow and
start from scratch that's thing about
chopping is you can just repaint over it
and boom the whole new job from scratch
obviously do that so we're just going to
keep this dressing now when it comes to
distressing between the drawers I like
to pull it out and because old furniture
from the 20s and 30s has we opened
opened and closed a lot a lot of the
time you'll see can have it's just
stress line up here so don't be scared
to it go ahead and distress in a little
bit of the edges you can see that since
I did put that white coat underneath now
it's kind of showing through which is
cool because it kind of gives it that
like to tongue blow
using always shifting we're pregnant so
continue to de-stress through the paint
layers so you can kind of see the
underneath so you get the kind of cool
one now I can see the Provence a little
bit a little bit of the white and it
gives it that good bull feel and again
don't be shy you know you can kind of
start and stop seeing exactly where the
best distressing it is now watch your
progress so again don't be shy now I'm
doing this between the waxing and the
paint face so this is my distressing
phase which I put in in step 2 some
people do it after they wax I find it a
little bit easier to get the chalk paint
before the wax has kind of sealed it so
it's a little bit of a shortcut but it
works for me so I'll be back when we're
about to put the wax on and then we'll
be done after the wax is applied